 Do you know what I found all these years?
 You are not qualified
 Man, I thought I was different
 But I am the living stereotype of a male software engineer
 Hello, people
 In the next 5 minutes
 I'm going to teach you 3 things that you can do to piss off a software engineer
 Why?
 Because why not?
 Inevitably, you now live in a world with a whole bunch of software engineers
 Who think they can change the world
 Who think they are crafting the future
 Yeah, you better know how to deal with them
 Number 1
 Say the following in a project
 We have a perfect business plan
 Now we just need to outsource the work to a few coders
 Coders?
 Yeah, man, you're doing that assault with no mercy
 Referring to software engineers as mindless tools
 Calling them coders is the right start
 But to be honest
 Regardless how you call them
 Developers, programmers or engineers
 Just remember the key touch
 The key touch is to imply that they are expendable
 You don't need them after they finish the code
 They don't have to participate in your great smart business strategy
 They are just weapons for you to wield and win
 Oh yes, imply this in a conversation with ignorance
 You can explode the software engineer right on the spot
 Number 2
 Say this in a conversation
 How many languages do you know?
 Wait, what?
 You don't know Python?
 It's basics
 I even learned Python in 10 minutes
 Good one
 And just pretend naive
 Hey, you have 7 years of experience as software engineers
 And you only know 3 languages?
 How come?
 Man, what have you been doing?
 Also pretend you don't understand their explanation
 That experience is not justified
 Is not proven by how many languages you know
 Instead, interrupt the engineer and tell them
 You know someone from whichever startup company
 Who can code so many different languages
 And make up the app by himself
 Just by himself
 Yeah, your already sad software engineer friend
 Probably will say
 Yeah, coding that much is one thing
 But quality is a different story
 And finally, this is what you can say
 No
 Speed matters more
 You have to know many languages
 Otherwise, you are not suited for startup environment
 You are not qualified
 You are not as good
 Overall, facing a software engineer
 Just remember
 Argue in a sense that you know better
 This qualifies their experience in engineering
 How?
 Think about it
 They are just a whole bunch of coders, right?
 No.3 Work-life balance
 Ask them
 I read the news about long working hours
 And unhealthy lifestyles of software engineers
 Are you sure you are okay?
 The key touch is to imply
 Software engineers just sit in a dark room
 And code for 12 hours a day
 No exercise, no social life
 Software engineers, you
 Look at my concerned face
 It's just like a machine who is determined to break apart very much soon
 And of course, don't forget to imply
 That what a healthy life you are living
 How often you exercise
 How many friends you have
 What are the great places you traveled to
 In the end, you don't want to look like you are judgmental, do you?
 Add this
 But you guys make so much money
 So it's justified for you, right?
 Sacrificing house
 It's probably worth it
 Good for you
 Man, that is it
 With the three topics
 You can crush a software engineer
 In a split of a second
 Right into their heart
 You win
 Okay, I hope you are getting the point that I am joking, right?
 These are stereotypes
 Please, no offense to anybody
 I myself am a software engineer
 I got these conversations quite often
 I went from being a little annoyed
 To being very annoyed
 And now, kind of being entertained by it
 It's like you sit on the toilet
 You got a spam call
 You don't actually have anything else better to do
 So might as well just play along
 I did multiple times with spam callers from all the way across the planet
 Just having a little friendly chat
 Sometimes I pretend I cannot speak English
 Other times I pretend that I have a very strong Chinese accent
 Well, those spam callers come up with a whole bunch of nonsense
 And it's really fascinating and entertaining
 So, same spirit here, right?
 Number one, they say
 It's easy
 Now we just need to outsource to a few coders to do it
 Yeah, yeah, yeah
 I happen to know a bunch of monkeys at the zoo
 I can make a call for you
 Number two, wait
 You only know three languages?
 What have you been doing?
 Oh, no, no, no
 I know more languages than that
 I can speak Chinese
 And I can speak English
 And I'm even learning Korean
 I learned just so-so in just 10 minutes as well
 Number three, work-life balance
 Your lifestyle is not healthy
 Yeah, I know, right?
 My previous team at Amazon has a daily stand-up meeting at 1 p.m.
 I don't know
 Rushing to the office to eat lunch with folks
 And attending the first meeting of the day right after lunch
 I mean, you get foot coma
 It's such a rush, I know
 What can I do?
 Work-life balance
 Such a pain
 All right
 Once again, no offense to anyone
 Jokes aside, it's actually very common that others do not understand our engineering life
 The booming of this software engineering industry is only about the past 10 to 20 years, right?
 I personally have stereotypes of other jobs too
 People who drive a car is a driver
 People who paint is a painter
 People who fish is a fisherman
 But I could be wrong all the time
 People who drive can be a famous writer, film director
 People who paint could have a career
 It has nothing to do with painting
 People who fish, well, I guess they could be on a reality show
 I'm totally fine with stereotypes
 If not logical, if not solution-driven, if not sophisticated
 Why am I choosing this way of life?
 Why am I choosing this line of work?
 I enjoy what I am doing
 And I'm perfectly okay with others not understanding
 It's only a little annoying when folks pretend that they understand
 And they reach out so far to comment about you based on their perception of your career
 Us, we, on the other hand, we could try to remain in control in those conversations like what I did
 But at the same time, we should know that they're not entirely wrong
 Engineers do share similar traits
 I used to think software engineer 2.0 should be someone who can do engineering work just fine
 And who can communicate perfectly and can be entertaining in social circles
 Like, for example, who can play guitar and who can sing
 Do you know what I've found all these years?
 A long list of male engineers doing just that
 Exactly what I am doing
 Write code, play guitar and sing
 That is my very stereotype of a male software engineer
 Disappointing face
 Man, I thought I was different
 But I am the living stereotype of a male software engineer
 Sadly, not so much different from the rest of us
 Period
 That's why I'm trying to break apart my own stereotypes over and over again
 I travel, but I also try to test if I can work and live in the city that I'm traveling to
 I do exercise, but I'm trying to attend activities that I'm not capable of like yoga
 I make and post videos, that's why you're here
 But I'm trying to challenge my content from different angles
 To be honest, sometimes I got setback
 Other times, I was successful in breaking those bubbles
 That is today's video
 I hope it's entertaining or to some extent comforting to some of you
 Question time
 What stereotype pisses you off?
 What gets personal when people stereotype you?
 How have you tried to break out the bubble, my fellow engineers?
 Please let me know down below in the comments
 I want to know
 I want to hear your bizarre story
 If you like today's video, you know the drill
 Like, comment and share
 Alright, I'll see you next time.
 you
