 Congratulations on making it this far.
 I just want to wrap up and leave you with a few final thoughts.
 We've been on quite a journey together.
 But if you've taken the whole specialization,
 then you've learned about neural networks and deep
 learning, how to improve deep neural networks,
 how to structure machine learning projects,
 convolutional neural networks.
 And then in this most recent course, sequence models.
 And I know you've worked really hard.
 And I also hope you feel very proud of yourself
 for your hard work and for how much you've done.
 So I want to leave you one maybe important thought,
 which is that I think deep learning is a superpower.
 With deep learning algorithms, you can make a computer see.
 You can have a computer synthesize novel art
 or synthesize music.
 You can have a computer translate from one language
 to another, maybe have it look at the radiology image
 and render a medical diagnosis or build pieces of a car that
 can drive itself.
 And if that isn't a superpower, I don't know what is.
 And as we wrap up this sequence of courses,
 as we wrap up this specialization,
 I hope that you will find ways to use these ideas
 to further your career, to pursue your dreams,
 but perhaps most important, to do whatever you think
 is the best work you can do for humanity.
 The world today has challenges.
 But with the power of AI and power of deep learning,
 I think we can make it a much better place.
 And now that you have this superpower,
 I hope you will use it to go out there and make
 life better for yourself, but also for other people.
 And of course, I also hope you feel
 very proud of your accomplishments
 and of how far you've come and of all that you've learned.
 And when you complete this sequence of courses,
 you should also share it on social media,
 like Twitter or Facebook, and let your friends know.
 And finally, the very last thing I want to say to you
 is congratulations on finishing the course.
 I hope you feel great about your accomplishment.
 But also, I want to thank you very much.
 I know that you have a busy life, but despite that,
 you spent a lot of time watching these videos
 and maybe spent a lot of time also
 working on the quizzes and the programming exercises.
 I hope you enjoyed it and you got a lot of the process.
 But I'm also very grateful for all your time you spent
 and for all your hard work you put
 into learning these materials.
 So thank you very much.
